posts/2025/return.md, before:

---
title: We are so back
description: I waited for 10 years to resurrect this blog
published: 2025-10-15T10:00
draft: true
lang: en
---

Here goes the image of a popular meme. I won't use AI for visualizing it.


[self hosted blog] -> [do not care just give me engagement] -> [self hosted blog]

I have had multiple blogs in my life. At some point I created a separate blog on tumblr just for 7 day long trip, and I still love it. Getting back and re-reading it once in 5 years gives me chills. Maybe I'll bring it here when I will come up with the proper solution to separation. Another time, I used throw-away name on the blogspot or Wordpress - just something that costs me nothing and hassle-free. And it still goes working and can be opened after all those years.

20 years ago I loved writing so much, that I did it almost everyday. After some time I decided it doesn't look good and I need more profoessinal blog post. Then I decided I want to write esseys (god, they were bad). They were so bad, that it led me to the invevitable conclusion - not just stop doing that, but shut down the site.

And then 10 years ago, it was clear that social media gives you so much more boost, it felt great, you could easily discover new people, and they can discover you.

Turns out, RSS is great too. Owning your content feels right. 

Hence, I care now more about ability to have more permanent place, that can be referenced from the future. 

![My GitHub public contributions](/media/2025/github-contribution-public.png "My GitHub public contributions")

![My GitHub private contributions](/media/2025/github-contribution-private.png "My GitHub private contributions")

<blockquote data-collect="quotes" data-author="Ada Lovelace">That brain of mine is more than merely mortal.</blockquote>

Commit message:

Finish the post first draft

posts/2025/return.md, after:

---
title: We are so back
description: I waited for 10 years to resurrect this blog
published: 2025-10-15T10:00
lang: en
---

There’s this popular meme. I won’t use AI to visualize it, so I’ll describe it instead. As time goes by, you sometimes realize that the things you cared about in the beginning turn out to be true again. Some people say life moves in a spiral.

[stand-alone, fully custom blog] -> [do not care just give me engagement] -> [stand-alone, fully custom blog]

I’ve had several phases in my life when I tried to blog. At one point, I even created a separate Tumblr just for a seven-day trip and I still love that blog. Going back and rereading it once every five years gives me chills. Maybe I’ll bring it over here someday, when I figure out a proper way to separate things.

Another time, I used a throwaway name on Blogspot or WordPress. Something that cost me nothing and required zero hassle. And it’s still there. Still working. Still openable after all these years. Still close to zero readers and visitors. 

Twenty years ago, I loved writing so much that I did it almost every day. After a while, I decided that what I was producing didn’t look serious enough, and that I needed a more professional blog. Then I decided I wanted to write essays. Exquisitely bad pieces. I guess I just loved the act of typing on a keyboard. They were so bad that I came to an inevitable conclusion — not just to stop, but to shut the whole site down.

And then, ten years later, it became obvious that social media gave you a much bigger boost. It felt great riding that wave: you could easily discover new, interesting people, and they could find you just as easily. 

That went on until I started my new full-time job. I had less and less time to write — partly because I was already writing about technology and open source for work, and partly because my energy for “extra” writing was slowly running out. I felt no need, and that was a mistake.

![My GitHub public contributions](/media/2025/github-contribution-public.png "GitHub public contributions")

![My GitHub private contributions](/media/2025/github-contribution.png "GitHub private contributions")

Now, in 2025, when most of my social network circles have dissolved and scattered across multiple platforms, I feel a bit of regret. I feel like I missed out having personal web-site empty all these years. So now I care much more about having a permanent place — something that can still be referenced in the future.

And technologically, all pieces have always been right here. It turns out RSS is great. Owning your content feels right.

The only thing left to solve is having zero readers. But that’s a different problem.

<blockquote data-collect="quotes" data-author="Ada Lovelace">That brain of mine is more than merely mortal.</blockquote>
